Added Document Wave configurations and Variables (#360)
seqeralabs/wave: CONFIGURATION.md

| `wave.build.k8s.resources.requests.cpu`    | Amount of [CPU resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#resource-units-in-kubernetes) to allocate to wave build processes, e.g. `2` or `1500m`. |                        | true     |
| `wave.build.k8s.resources.requests.memory` | Amount of [memory resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#resource-units-in-kubernetes) to allocate to wave build processes, e.g. `3Gi` or `2000Mi`.           |                        | true     |

## Container scan process configuration

| Variable                      | Description                                                                                        | Default Value  / Environment Variable | Optional |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|----------|
| `wave.scan.enabled`                   | Enable or disable vulnerability scanning.                                                          | `false`                               | false    |

> | `wave.scan.severity`                  | [Severity level](https://aquasecurity.github.io/trivy/v0.22.0/vulnerability/examples/filter/) for vulnerability scanning. e.g. `MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL`.                        | `LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL`            | true     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `wave.scan.severity`                  | [Severity level](https://aquasecurity.github.io/trivy/v0.22.0/vulnerability/examples/filter/) for vulnerability scanning, e.g. `LOW`, `MEDIUM`, `HIGH`, `CRITICAL`.                        | `LOW`            | true     |
```

I guess the default is not ALL values, right?

Reviewer: Ok, makes sense then. Rephrasing the description may help.

Author: done

| `micronaut.caches.cache-20sec.expire-after-access` | Cache with a 20-second expire-after-access policy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | `20s`                                     | false    |
| `micronaut.caches.cache-1min.expire-after-access`  | Cache with a 1-minute expire-after-access policy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | `1m`                                      | false    |
| `micronaut.server.thread-selection` | Thread selection strategy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | `AUTO`                                    | false    |

> | `micronaut.server.idle-timeout` | Idle timeout for the server. note that this should be greater thean or equal the build timeout (which is 15 minutes)                                                                                                                                                          | `910s`                     | false    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `micronaut.server.idle-timeout` | Idle timeout for the server. Note that this should be greater than or equal to the build timeout (15 minutes by default)                                                                                                                                                          | `910s`                     | false    |
```

`wave.build.timeout` is set to `5m` by default, so where is that 15 minutes coming from?

Author: removed from configuration

# Wave Application Configuration

Set Wave configuration values using environment variables, or in config.yml configuration file

## General configuration

| Variable                      | Description                            | Default Value / Environment Variable | Optional |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|----------|
| `micronaut.application.name`| The name of wave application.          | `wave-app`                          | true     |
| `micronaut.server.port`      | The port for wave server.              | `8080`                              | true     |
| `wave.allowAnonymous`         | Allow anonymous access to wave server. | `false`                             | false    |
| `wave.server.url`             | URL for the Wave server.               | `${WAVE_SERVER_URL}`                | true     |

> | `wave.tokens.cache.duration`          | Duration for caching tokens.           |                                     | true     |

Author: done

> | `wave.tokens.cache.duration`          | Duration for caching tokens.           |                                     | true     |

Reviewer: Could you add which tokens are we talking about here?

> | `wave.tokens.cache.duration`          | Duration for caching tokens.           |                                     | true     |

Author: done

> | `tower.endpoint.url`                 | URL for the seqera platform API.       |                                     | true     |

Author: done

| `logger.levels.io.seqera`     | Log level for `io.seqera` package.     | `TRACE`                             | true     |

## Container registry configuration

> **Note**: you will find them in `config.yml` in the root directory of the project. These configurations are important for the authentication of wave to the repositories used to push or pull artifacts by wave 

Author: done

| `wave.httpclient.retry.attempts` | Number of http client retry attempts.            | `5`           | false    |
| `wave.httpclient.retry.maxDelay` | Maximum delay for http client retries.           |               | true     |
| `wave.httpclient.retry.jitter` | Jitter fot http client retries.                  | `0.25`        | false    |
| `wave.httpclient.retry.multiplier` | Multiplier for http client retries.              | `1.0`         | false    |
| `micronaut.http.services.stream-client.read-timeout` | Read timeout for the streaming http client.      | `30s`                                | false    |
| `micronaut.http.services.stream-client.read-idle-timeout` | Read idle timeout for the streaming http client. | `120s`                           | false    |

## Container build process configuration

| Variable                      | Description                                                          | Default Value / Environment Variable                  | Optional |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------|

> | `wave.build.timeout`                  | Timeout for the build process.                                       | `5m `                                                | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munishchouhan  was this actioned?

> | `wave.build.timeout`                  | Timeout for the build process.                                       | `5m `                                                | false    |

Author: done

| `wave.build.workspace`                | Path to workspace for the build process. e.g. /efs/wave/build        |                                                      | false    |

> | `wave.build.cleanup`                  | Cleanup strategy after the build process. Options: `OnSuccess`.    |                                                      | true     |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `wave.build.cleanup`                  | Cleanup strategy after the build process. Options: `OnSuccess`.    |                                                      | true     |

Author: This is to enable cleanup and to make the user aware that the cleanup is happening only at success event

> | `wave.build.workspace`                | Path to workspace for the build process. e.g. `/efs/wave/build`                                         |                                                     | false    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `wave.build.workspace`                | Path to directory where wave will store build files, e.g. `/efs/wave/build`                                         |                                                     | false    |
```

Not sure this is the correct meaning though, could you review it and expand it?

Author: added more description

| `wave.build.kaniko-image`     | Docker image for Kaniko for build process.                           | `gcr.io/kaniko-project/executor:v1.19.2`             | false    |

> | `wave.build.singularity-image` | Singularity image for the build process.                             | `quay.io/singularity/singularity:v3.11.4-slim`       | false    |

Reviewer: Could you reconsider the suggestion I proposed?

> | `wave.build.singularity-image` | Singularity image for the build process.                             | `quay.io/singularity/singularity:v3.11.4-slim`       | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `wave.build.singularity-image` | Singularity image for the build process.                             | `quay.io/singularity/singularity:v3.11.4-slim`       | false    |

Author: done

> | `wave.build.cleanup`                  | Cleanup strategy after the build process. Options: `OnSuccess`.                                         |                                                     | true     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `wave.build.cleanup`                  | Cleanup strategy after the build process. Options: `OnSuccess`.                                         | `OnSuccess` | true     |
```

If `OnSuccess` is the only option available and the variable is optional, I guess the default value has to be `OnSuccess`?

Author: its a nullable property, so the default is null

> | `wave.build.singularity-image-arm64` | Singularity ARM64 image for the build process.                       | `quay.io/singularity/singularity:v3.11.4-slim-arm64` | true     |

Reviewer: Same here as above.

> | `wave.build.singularity-image-arm64` | Singularity ARM64 image for the build process.                       | `quay.io/singularity/singularity:v3.11.4-slim-arm64` | true     |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `wave.build.singularity-image-arm64` | Singularity ARM64 image for the build process.                       | `quay.io/singularity/singularity:v3.11.4-slim-arm64` | true     |

Author: done

| `wave.build.repo`             | Docker container repository for the docker images build by wave.     |                | false    |

> | `wave.build.cache`            | Docker container repository to cache layers of images build by wave. |               | false    |

Reviewer: Please reconsider this suggestion too, as there's a typo, thanks

> | `wave.build.cache`            | Docker container repository to cache layers of images build by wave. |               | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `wave.build.cache`            | Docker container repository to cache layers of images build by wave. |               | false    |

Author: done

| `wave.build.status.delay`     | Delay for build status checks.                                       | `5s`    | false    |

> | `wave.build.status.duration`  | Duration for build status checks.                                    | `1d`              | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `wave.build.status.duration`  | Duration for build status checks.                                    | `1d`              | false    |

Author: it is time to live for failed builds in the cache 
https://github.com/seqeralabs/wave/blob/dd2413dde649ff3aa9f037b215d5146df8fb94a6/src/main/groovy/io/seqera/wave/service/builder/ContainerBuildServiceImpl.groovy#L198-L206

> | `wave.build.public`                  | Deafult public re[ository for wave.                                  |                | true     |

Reviewer 2: @munishchouhan  how about this one?

> | `wave.build.public`                  | Deafult public re[ository for wave.                                  |                | true     |

Author: done

| `wave.build.compress-caching`                  | Wave caching compression for build process.                          | `true`     | false    |

### Spack configuration for container build process

**Note**: these configuration are mandatory if you want to support Spack in you wave installation.

| Variable                                   | Description                                              | Default Value  / Environment Variable | Optional |
|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|----------|

> | `wave.build.spack.cacheDirectory`     | Cache directory for Spack. e.g. `/efs/wave/spack/cache`.              |               | false    |

Author: yes, we someone do not want to use s3

> | `wave.build.spack.cacheDirectory`     | Cache directory for Spack. e.g. `/efs/wave/spack/cache`.              |               | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `wave.build.spack.cacheDirectory`     | Cache directory for Spack. e.g. `/efs/wave/spack/cache`.              |               | false    |

Author: yes, it is removed

| `wave.build.spack.cacheMountPath`     | Cache mount path for Spack. e.g. `/var/seqera/spack/cache`.           |                 | false    |
| `wave.build.spack.secretKeyFile`      | Secret key file for Spack. e.g. `/efs/wave/spack/key`.                |                 | false    |

> | `wave.build.spack.secretMountPath`    | Secret mount path for Spack. e.g. `/var/seqera/spack/key`.            |                   | false    |

Author: yes, I will rephrase it

### Build process logs configuration

| Variable                      | Description                                              | Default Value / Environment Variable | Optional |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------|
| `logger.levels.io.micronaut.retry.intercept.RecoveryInterceptor` | Log level for `RecoveryInterceptor`.                     | `OFF` | false    |

> | `micronaut.object-storage.aws.build-logs.bucket` | AWS S3 bucket, where wave will store build process logs. | `${wave.build.logs.bucket}`         | false    |

Author: I will change to correct one thanks

### Kubernetes configuration for container build process

> **Note**: If you will use Kubernetes.

Author: yes wave can be run using just docker

> | `wave.build.spack.cacheMountPath`  | Path to local directory where to save spack build cache files, e.g. `/efs/wave/spack/cache`.                                                                                                   |                 | false    |

Author: you are correct we do not support cacheDirectory anymore, and therefore wave.build.spack.cacheMountPath is also not needed

> | `wave.build.spack.cacheMountPath`  | Path to local directory where to save spack build cache files, e.g. `/efs/wave/spack/cache`.                                                                                                   |                 | false    |

Author: done

> | `wave.build.spack.secretMountPath` | Path mounted inside spack docker image for PGP private key mentioned specified by `wave.build.spack.secretKeyFile`. e.g. `/var/seqera/spack/key`.                                              |                   | false    |

Author: done

> | `wave.build.logs.bucket` | AWS S3 bucket, where wave will store build process logs.     |         | false    |

Author: done

> | `wave.build.logs.prefix` | Prefix to be used for build process logs files in S3 bucket. |        | true     |

Author: done

> | `wave.build.logs.maxLength` | Maximu length of build process logs.                         | `100000`        | false    |

Author: done

| `wave.build.k8s.labels`                    | Labels wave kubernetes pod.                              |  | true     |
| `wave.build.k8s.node-selector`             | Node selector for wave kubernetes pod.                   |  | true     |
| `wave.build.k8s.service-account`           | Service account name for wve kubernetes cluster.         |  | true     |
| `wave.build.k8s.resources.requests.cpu`    | Allocate number of CPUs for build process in kubernetes. |                        | true     |
| `wave.build.k8s.resources.requests.memory` | Allocate memory for build process in kubernetes. e.g. `2000Mi`.           |                        | true     |

## Container scan process configuration

| Variable                      | Description                                                            | Default Value  / Environment Variable | Optional |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|----------|
| `wave.scan.enabled`                   | Enable or disable vulnerability scanning.                              | `false`                | false    |

> | `wave.scan.severity`                  | Severity level for vulnerability scanning. e.g. `MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL`. |                        | true     |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `wave.scan.severity`                  | Severity level for vulnerability scanning. e.g. `MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL`. |                        | true     |

Author: done

> | `wave.scan.image.name`        | Docker Image used for container securioty scanning.                    | `aquasec/trivy:0.47.0` | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `wave.scan.image.name`        | Docker Image used for container securioty scanning.                    | `aquasec/trivy:0.47.0` | false    |

Author: done

| `wave.scan.severity`                  | Severity level for vulnerability scanning. e.g. `MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL`. | `LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL`            | true     |
| `wave.scan.image.name`        | Docker Image used for container securioty scanning.                    | `aquasec/trivy:0.47.0`                | false    |

### Kubernetes configuration for Wave scan process

**Note**: only applies when using Kubernetes.

| Variable                      | Description                                                      | Default Value / Environment Variable  | Optional |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|----------|

> | `wave.scan.k8s.resources.requests.cpu`        | Amount of [CPU resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#resource-units-in-kubernetes) to allocate to wave build processes, e.g. `2` or `1500m`.        |                                      | true     |

Author: done

## Database and cache configuration

| Variable             | Description                  | Default Value / Environment Variable | Optional |
|----------------------|------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|----------|
| `redis.uri`          | URI for connecting to Redis. | `redis://${REDIS_HOST:redis}:${REDIS_PORT:6379}` | false    |
| `redis.pool.enabled` | Enable redis pool.           | `true`                                             | true     |
| `surrealdb.ns`       | Surreal database namespace.  | `${SURREALDB_NS}`                                | false    |
| `surrealdb.db`       | Surreal database name.       | `${SURREALDB_DB}`                                | false    |
| `surrealdb.url`      | Surreal database url.        | `${SURREALDB_URL}`                               | false    |
| `surrealdb.user`     | Surreal database username.   | `${SURREALDB_USER}`                              | false    |
| `surrealdb.password` | Surreal database password.    | `${SURREALDB_PASSWORD`                               | false    |

> | `surrealdb.init-db`  | Should initiate surreal DB.   |                           | true     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `surrealdb.init-db`  | Whether to initiate the surreal DB using the `user`, `password`, `url`, `ns` and `db` values. |                           | true     |
```

> | `wave.scan.k8s.resources.requests.memory`        | Amount of [memory resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#resource-units-in-kubernetes) to allocate to wave build processes, e.g. `3Gi` or `2000Mi`.  |                                      | true     |

Author: done

> **Note**: Set these properties to enable rate limiting in wave by adding `rate-limit` in micronaut environment.

Author: done

## Email configuration

> | Variable                      | Description                                         | Default Value / Environment Variable | Optional |
> |-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------|
> | `mail.from`                          | Email address for sending mail from wave.                         |       | false    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Variable    | Description                                  | Default Value / Environment Variable | Optional |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|----------|
| `mail.from` | Sender email address for wave notifications. |                                      | false    |
```

## Jackson configuration

| Variable                      | Description                                         | Default Value / Environment Variable | Optional |
|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------|

> | `jackson.serialization.writeDatesAsTimestamps` | Write dates as timestamps in jackson serialization. | `false`                                  | false    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `jackson.serialization.writeDatesAsTimestamps` | Whether to write dates as timestamps in jackson serialization. | `false`                                  | false    |
```

## Micronaut specific Configuration

| Variable                    | Description                                                                                 | Default Value / Environment Variable | Optional |
|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------|
| `micronaut.caches.cache-20sec.expire-after-access` | Cache with a 20-second expire-after-access policy.                                          | `20s`                                     | false    |

> | `micronaut.caches.cache-1min.expire-after-access`  | Cache with a 1-minute expire-after-access policy.                                           | `1m`                                      | false    |

Reviewer: It's not clear to me what these parameters are used for.

Moreover, can the user define their own using the same pattern? `micronaut.caches.cache-49sec.expire-after-access`

And why are these required (Optional: false) but are not defined in the wave prod config?

The description is also confusing

Author: Many of these sonfig are present in application.yml file
prod config contains properties, which are either not defined or needs to be overridden

| `micronaut.caches.cache-1min.expire-after-access`  | Cache with a 1-minute expire-after-access policy.                                           | `1m`                                      | false    |

> | `micronaut.server.thread-selection` | Thread selection strategy.                                                                  | `AUTO`                                    | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `micronaut.server.idle-timeout` | Idle timeout for the server. note this should be >= the build timeout (which is 15 minutes) | `910s`                     | false    |

Author: done

> | `micronaut.server.idle-timeout` | Idle timeout for the server. note this should be >= the build timeout (which is 15 minutes) | `910s`                     | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish can this be resolved then?

| `micronaut.views.folder`       | Folder for Micronaut views.                                                                 | `io/seqera/wave`                          | false    |
| `micronaut.router.static-resources.css.paths` | CSS static resource paths.                                                                  | `classpath:io/seqera/wave/css`           | false    |
| `micronaut.router.static-resources.css.mapping` | Mapping for CSS resources.                                                                  | `/css/**`                                | false    |

> | `micronaut.router.static-resources.css.enabled` | Enable or disable CSS resources.                                                            | `true`                                   | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

> | `micronaut.router.static-resources.assets.paths` | Assets static resource paths.                                                               | `classpath:io/seqera/wave/assets`        | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

| `micronaut.router.static-resources.assets.mapping` | Mapping for assets resources.                                                               | `/assets/**`                             | false    |
| `micronaut.router.static-resources.assets.enabled` | Enable or disable assets resources.                                                         | `true`                                   | false    |

> | `micronaut.executors.stream-executor.type` | Executor type for the stream executor.                                                      | `FIXED`                                  | false    |

Reviewer 2: @munish how about this?

| `micronaut.executors.stream-executor.number-of-threads` | Number of threads for the stream executor.                                                  | `16`                     | false    |

> | `micronaut.netty.event-loops.stream-pool.executor` | Executor for the stream pool event loops.                                                   | `stream-executor`                  | false    |

Author: removed

> | `logger.levels.io.micronaut.retry.intercept.RecoveryInterceptor` | Log level for `io.micronaut.retry.intercept.RecoveryInterceptor`. by default these logs are disabled, as they have been found to be noisy. | `OFF` | false    |

Author: I am not sure, But for now, I will add the choices
@pditommaso please advise

# Wave Application Configuration

Set Wave configuration values using environment variables or in [`config.yml`](./config.yml) configuration file

### config.yml configuration

Declare YAML configuration values in [`config.yml`](./config.yml)
```
wave:
    mail:
        from: "wave-app@seqera.io"
```

YAML configuration keys on this page are listed in "dot" notation, i.e., the mail from value in the snippet above is represented as `wave.mail.from` in the tables that follow.
Environment variables for various attributes has been listed in third column, either you can provide those attributes values in config.yml or using corresponding environment variable.

## General configuration

General configuration options such as wave application name, port, whether to allow anonymous access (without tower token), wave and Seqera platform url.

- The **`micronaut.application.name`** variable represents the name of the Wave application. By default, it is set to `wave-app`. *Optional*.

- The **`micronaut.server.port`** variable determines the port used by the Wave server. The default port is `8080`. *Optional*.

> - The **`wave.allowAnonymous`** setting decides whether anonymous access to the Wave server is permitted. By default, it is set to `false`, meaning authentication is required. Change this option based on your security requirements. *Mandatory*.

Reviewer 2: `wave.allowAnonymous` : says it has a default value, but also that is is mandatory. Sounds strange that the two both stand, can you doublecheck?
